## What Is a Probability Distribution?
A probability distribution is a statistical function that describes all the possible values and likelihoods that a **random variable** can take within a given range. This range will be bounded between the minimum and maximum possible values, but precisely where the possible value is likely to be plotted on the probability distribution depends on a number of factors. These factors include the distribution's mean (average), standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis.
 
 <hr/>
 
### What Is a Random Variable? (Optional)

A random variable is a variable whose value is unknown or a function that assigns values to each of an experiment's outcomes. Random variables are often designated by letters and can be classified as discrete, which are variables that have specific values, or continuous, which are variables that can have any values within a continuous range.

Random variables are often used in econometric or regression analysis to determine statistical relationships among one another.

In probability and statistics, random variables are used to quantify outcomes of a random occurrence, and therefore, can take on many values. Random variables are required to be measurable and are typically real numbers. For example, the letter X may be designated to represent the sum of the resulting numbers after three dice are rolled. In this case, X could be 3 (1 + 1+ 1), 18 (6 + 6 + 6), or somewhere between 3 and 18, since the highest number of a die is 6 and the lowest number is 1.

A random variable is different from an algebraic variable. The variable in an algebraic equation is an unknown value that can be calculated. The equation 10 + x = 13 shows that we can calculate the specific value for x which is 3. On the other hand, a random variable has a set of values, and any of those values could be the resulting outcome

#### Summary:
- A random variable is a variable whose value is unknown or a function that assigns values to each of an experiment's outcomes.
- A random variable can be either discrete (having specific values) or continuous (any value in a continuous range).
- The use of random variables is most common in probability and statistics, where they are used to quantify outcomes of random occurrences.
- Risk analysts use random variables to estimate the probability of an adverse event occurring.

<hr/>

## How Probability Distributions Work
Perhaps the most common probability distribution is the normal distribution, or "bell curve," although several distributions exist that are commonly used. Typically, the data generating process of some phenomenon will dictate its probability distribution. This process is called the probability density function.

Probability distributions can also be used to create cumulative distribution functions (CDFs), which adds up the probability of occurrences cumulatively and will always start at zero and end at 100%.

### Types of Probability Distributions

There are many different classifications of probability distributions. Some of them include the normal distribution, chi square distribution, binomial distribution, and Poisson distribution. The different probability distributions serve different purposes and represent different data generation processes. The binomial distribution, for example, evaluates the probability of an event occurring several times over a given number of trials and given the event's probability in each trial. and may be generated by keeping track of how many free throws a basketball player makes in a game, where 1 = a basket and 0 = a miss. Another typical example would be to use a fair coin and figuring out the probability of that coin coming up heads in 10 straight flips. A binomial distribution is discrete, as opposed to continuous, since only 1 or 0 is a valid response.

The most commonly used distribution is the normal distribution, which is used frequently in finance, investing, science, and engineering. The normal distribution is fully characterized by its mean and standard deviation, meaning the distribution is not skewed and does exhibit kurtosis. This makes the distribution symmetric and it is depicted as a bell-shaped curve when plotted. A normal distribution is defined by a mean (average) of zero and a standard deviation of 1.0, with a skew of zero and kurtosis = 3. In a normal distribution, approximately 68% of the data collected will fall within +/- one standard deviation of the mean; approximately 95% within +/- two standard deviations; and 99.7% within three standard deviations. Unlike the binomial distribution, the normal distribution is continuous, meaning that all possible values are represented (as opposed to just 0 and 1 with nothing in between).

#### KEY TAKEAWAYS
- A probability distribution depicts the expected outcomes of possible values for a given data generating process.
- Probability distributions come in many shapes with different characteristics, as defined by the mean, standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis.
